# Lesson 1:
## Hello World

```cpp
//First Program
#include <iostream>

int main(){
	std::cout << "Hello World!" << std::endl;
	return 0;
}
```
### How to Compile and Run:
Navigate to project directory, and run this command in terminal or cmd (replace "<filename>" with actual file name):
```
g++ <filename>
```
Yay! You have successfully compiled your file (hopefully). The compiler probably created a file called a.exe or a.out, depending on which
operating system you are using. If you are on Windows, type this (without quotes) "a.exe" into the cmd. If you are using linux, type "./a.out".
Then, you should see the program print out "Hello World!" into the terminal.
Expected Output: <br/>
```Hello World!```

### Line by Line Description:

```cpp
//First Program
```
This is a comment, which does nothing and means nothing to the compiler. It just helps make the code easier to read for humans.

```cpp
#include <iostream>
```
This is a include statement, which includes libraries (other files). The # symbol is used to tell the compiler to do this before it actually compiles the file.

```cpp
int main(){
```
This begins the "main" function, where all of the code that gets executed goes. The compiler will do everything that is listed in here.

```cpp
std::cout << "Hello World!" << std::endl;
```
This actually prints out the words "Hello World!". "std::cout" is the print object for C++. "std" is a namespace, and it stands for standard. "cout" is the name of the function thing. The "<<" show that "Hello World!" is being sent to the output and getting printed. Finally, "std::endl" is just a new line.

```cpp
return 0;
```
This goes at the end of the "main" function, to say that the program has successfully completed.

```cpp
}
```
This shows that the main function is done.

-------------------------------------------------

## Hello World v2

```cpp
//Second Program
#include <iostream>

using namespace std;

int main(){
	cout << "Hello Worldv2!" << endl;
	return 0;
}
```
Expected Output: <br/>
```Hello Worldv2!```

### Line by Line Description:<br/>
(new and changed lines)

```cpp
using namespace std;
```
The words "using namespace" mean to add the namespace to all applicable objects and functions. For example, instead of saying std::cout, you could just say cout.

```cpp
cout << "Hello Worldv2!" << endl;
```
This is the same as last time, but because the "using namespace" thing is present, you don't have to say "std::" anymore.
